talks/index.markdown, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Talks"
date: 2017-09-21 09:47
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
---

<h2 class="intro">The following are talks that I've given or presented at various events, meetups or conferences:</h2>

### PyGotham 2019: Can Neural Networks Make Me a Better Parent?

A talk about my Deep Learning Baby Monitor project, which I used to prove some greater insights into the need to incorporate human feedback loops into our ML pipelines. I wrote about this project in [several]({% post_url 2018-03-21-tensorflow-for-tears-part-1 %}) [other]({% post_url 2018-08-27-tensorflow-for-tears-part-2 %}) [posts]({% post_url 2019-10-06-what-training-an-audio-recognition-cnn-taught-me-about-parenting-and-about-humane-ml %}) on this [blog]({% post_url 2019-12-07-on-using-personas-in-user-centered-ml-model-development %}).

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/sT_yS8XAQEw" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Slides:

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="01b04271a7fc42a996799435411f660b" data-ratio="1.77777777777778" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>


### Namegames - Solving the Hardest Problem in Computer Science

A deep dive into the linguistic origins of naming with a detour into semiotics and communication theory. If you get through this, you'll be better able to understand why Domain-Driven Design leans so hard into the linguistic connotations of systems.

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="aa180d04572e440d88a9f9ac50d17526" data-ratio="1.77777777777778" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

### Fog City Ruby: The Slow-Cooked Side Project

This was a fun talk about my experience building [Wejoinin](https://www.wejoinin.com) as a side project. Lots of pointers, especially for junior engineers and people looking to get started in the field.

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="a3ee821a8a0d45a19ebc1021a543a5d3" data-ratio="1.77469670710572" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

### Elixir Daze 2018: Building Beautiful Systems with Phoenix Contexts and DDD

A slightly tweaked version of my Empex talk. Discussing how Phoenix's Context modules have their design roots in DDD, and giving examples for how one can use DDD principles to design flexible systems!

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/l3VgbSgo71E" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Slides:

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="dd435df81cf349b09f2eafd20bd061f6" data-ratio="1.77469670710572" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

### Empex LA 2018: Building Beautiful Systems with Phoenix

Taking the lessons learned from applying DDD bounded context design patterns in Rails, but applying it to Elixir's Phoenix framework.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/oJghZB9sSuU" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### Railsconf 2017: Built to last: A domain-driven approach to beautiful systems

In which I discuss the application of DDD techniques to break up a Rails monolith.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/52qChRS4M0Y" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Slides:

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="cf184d26bbdf42779a1f8ffce0e2b3bd" data-ratio="1.77777777777778" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

### Fog City Ruby (Feb 2017): Highly Cohesive, Loosely Coupled (& Very Awesome)

A discussion on how to design systems that are loosely coupled and highly cohesive.

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="6148f90c03f0478985324958ba2b36b7" data-ratio="1.6" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

### js.la (Feb 2016): Reactive Programming for Couch Potatoes

A gentle primer to reactive programming by way of RxJS and CycleJS.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/OXjaN_I9trs" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Slides:

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="039e35ce94b241778cecab5fa245906a" data-ratio="1.6" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>


### Carbon Five Talk Night (Oct 2015): DDD-rail Your Monorail

A community talk around applying DDD principles to Rails

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/TljmIXW2fwM" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Slides:

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="1e6dd8983891467381036a321cd274a9" data-ratio="1.77777777777778" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

### See more:

Other talks (of no less import!) are on my <a href="https://speakerdeck.com/andrewhao">Speakerdeck profile: https://speakerdeck.com/andrewhao</a>

Commit message:

Adding note about Elixir Mix episode

talks/index.markdown, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Talks"
date: 2017-09-21 09:47
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
---

<h2 class="intro">The following are talks that I've given or presented at various events, meetups or conferences:</h2>

### PyGotham 2019: Can Neural Networks Make Me a Better Parent?

A talk about my Deep Learning Baby Monitor project, which I used to prove some greater insights into the need to incorporate human feedback loops into our ML pipelines. I wrote about this project in [several]({% post_url 2018-03-21-tensorflow-for-tears-part-1 %}) [other]({% post_url 2018-08-27-tensorflow-for-tears-part-2 %}) [posts]({% post_url 2019-10-06-what-training-an-audio-recognition-cnn-taught-me-about-parenting-and-about-humane-ml %}) on this [blog]({% post_url 2019-12-07-on-using-personas-in-user-centered-ml-model-development %}) and on [Medium](https://towardsdatascience.com/integrating-personas-in-user-centered-ml-model-development-afb593741c49).

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/sT_yS8XAQEw" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Slides:

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="01b04271a7fc42a996799435411f660b" data-ratio="1.77777777777778" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>


### Elixir Mix 053 - "Building beautiful systems with Phoenix Contexts and DDD with Andrew Hao"

I appeared on the Elixir Mix podcast with hosts Mark Ericksen and Josh Adams to discuss Domain-Driven Design and how it can be used with Phoenix contexts. We even go into an exercise I love called Context Mapping. [Listen to the episode on Elixir Mix](https://devchat.tv/elixir-mix/emx-053-building-beautiful-systems-with-phoenix-contexts-and-ddd-with-andrew-hao/) or on [Apple Podcasts](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/emx-053-building-beautiful-systems-phoenix-contexts/id1379029137?i=1000439929527).


### Namegames - Solving the Hardest Problem in Computer Science

A deep dive into the linguistic origins of naming with a detour into semiotics and communication theory. If you get through this, you'll be better able to understand why Domain-Driven Design leans so hard into the linguistic connotations of systems.

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="aa180d04572e440d88a9f9ac50d17526" data-ratio="1.77777777777778" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

### Fog City Ruby: The Slow-Cooked Side Project

This was a fun talk about my experience building [Wejoinin](https://www.wejoinin.com) as a side project. Lots of pointers, especially for junior engineers and people looking to get started in the field.

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="a3ee821a8a0d45a19ebc1021a543a5d3" data-ratio="1.77469670710572" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

### Elixir Daze 2018: Building Beautiful Systems with Phoenix Contexts and DDD

A slightly tweaked version of my Empex talk. Discussing how Phoenix's Context modules have their design roots in DDD, and giving examples for how one can use DDD principles to design flexible systems!

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/l3VgbSgo71E" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Slides:

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="dd435df81cf349b09f2eafd20bd061f6" data-ratio="1.77469670710572" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

### Empex LA 2018: Building Beautiful Systems with Phoenix

Taking the lessons learned from applying DDD bounded context design patterns in Rails, but applying it to Elixir's Phoenix framework.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/oJghZB9sSuU" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### Railsconf 2017: Built to last: A domain-driven approach to beautiful systems

In which I discuss the application of DDD techniques to break up a Rails monolith.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/52qChRS4M0Y" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Slides:

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="cf184d26bbdf42779a1f8ffce0e2b3bd" data-ratio="1.77777777777778" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

### Fog City Ruby (Feb 2017): Highly Cohesive, Loosely Coupled (& Very Awesome)

A discussion on how to design systems that are loosely coupled and highly cohesive.

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="6148f90c03f0478985324958ba2b36b7" data-ratio="1.6" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

### js.la (Feb 2016): Reactive Programming for Couch Potatoes

A gentle primer to reactive programming by way of RxJS and CycleJS.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/OXjaN_I9trs" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Slides:

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="039e35ce94b241778cecab5fa245906a" data-ratio="1.6" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>


### Carbon Five Talk Night (Oct 2015): DDD-rail Your Monorail

A community talk around applying DDD principles to Rails

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/TljmIXW2fwM" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Slides:

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="1e6dd8983891467381036a321cd274a9" data-ratio="1.77777777777778" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>

### See more:

Other talks (of no less import!) are on my <a href="https://speakerdeck.com/andrewhao">Speakerdeck profile: https://speakerdeck.com/andrewhao</a>
