---
layout: post
title: "Recap: QCon SF 2014"
date: 2014-11-05 19:01
comments: true
categories: 
- qconsf
- conference
- software
---
Blurb sent me off to QCon SF 2014 for three days.

## Notes

I took a series of notes each day in attendance:

* [Day One: Architectures, Functional](/notes/2014-11-03-qconsf-day-one.html)
* [Day Two: Rx Systems, API Platforms](/notes/2014-11-04-qconsf-day-two.html)
* [Day Three: Microservices, Culture](/notes/2014-11-05-qconsf-day-three.html)

## Summary

* Big trends in continuous delivery and deployment -- deploy more often, smaller feedback loops
* A lot of emphasis on event driven architectures + microservices. Lots of emphasis on DDD as a design tool.
* Reactive systems with functional implementations were widely discussed as a scaling tool (backpressure-sensitive) and as a coordination tool between multiple async services.
* Big data/realtime streaming talks were interesting -- my personal experience with them is limited, but it seems there is a debate over the merits of existing Lambda architecture practice.
* A lot of talk about microservice orchestration tools -- acknowledging the pain of configuration and management of many services.
* Scala got a lotttt of attention. Probably because of its presence in bigger companies like Netflix, Twitter, LinkedIn. Wonder what smaller startups are using.
* Web Components were a big upcoming trend in frontend technologies. Strong modularization of views + behaviors in HTML documents.

## Questions

* If I could do a startup over again, would I begin an app in Rails? Where is the sweet spot for that sort of application architecture?
* How can I design systems such that they can be extractible into focused components/services as early as possible?
* How can we plan for failures ([fault injection](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fault_injection))?
* How does one implement change in software engineering organizations? Bottom-up (organic initiatives bubbling up through management) vs top-down (management/software leaders direct org to implement).
* How are we doing with encouraging women and minorities who traditionally are underrepresented in our industry?
* What are places in our hiring funnels that, unbeknownst to us, may be turning away or detracting women and minorities?
